hello there in this lesson
we're going to look at three high-stakes
english exams
pt academic ielts academic and toefl ibt
and i'm going to do a bit of a deep dive
an unbiased
deep dive into these three exams so you
can find out which
one is the best one for you okay
let's take a look so what we're going to
do is again look at pt academic ielts
academic toefl ibt
we're going to focus specifically on the
speaking and writing sections because
they're the hardest ones
we're going to look at the content and
format between the three tests
we're going to compare the
computer-based test versus the
paper-based tests
we'll also look at the task lengths the
difficulty the scoring and
how you can prepare best by the way
i should mention that if you want to
know more about this if you want to deep
dive even
further into a comparison of these three
tests then
listen to the podcast that me
i me me i do with alex and
sylee alex is an ielts expert sally is a
toefl expert
i know everything there is to know about
english language exams not true i know a
bit
we all have we have a discussion and go
in depth into these exams so check it
out on e2
talks which you can find on your
favorite podcast
channel thing okay let's focus on
speaking
first okay so of course in these
tests all three of these tests they test
you on four skills
speaking writing reading and listening
let's focus on speaking
and just briefly just so you understand
the complexity of what speaking
actually means take a look at this
little diagram here
speaking here you'll be speaking in an
academic context which
changes the game you'll be assessed on
pronunciation vocabulary
and grammar pronunciation refers to the
sounds that you make
and there are other features to
pronunciation such as word stress etc
you'll be tested on vocab including your
precision of the words you choose
the range that is how broad your
vocabulary is
grammatical accuracy and again
grammatical range that is the
breadth of your grammar as well so you
can be flexible when you
speak so they all test you on these
things
broadly let's take a look at pt
academic speaking in more detail
so pt academic speaking has one two
three four
five different tasks let's take a look
at the first one it's called read aloud
what you have to do and this is the
first task of the pt academic test
is you have to read a paragraph aloud
pretty cool hey not too difficult you
get to read it
once as a rehearsal then you read it
again of course
it's not that simple because there's a
certain way that you need to read it in
order to maximize your scores
but that's for another day the second
speaking task is called repeat sentence
it looks like this
what happens is you're going to hear a
single sentence you'll listen very
carefully
then you'll repeat the sentence back
exactly as
it was said including the same vocab
grammar
and also the same sort of delivery style
the same intonation
etc again more of that another day
the third speaking task on pt academic
is called describe image and it looks
like this
what happens is you'll have 25 seconds
to look at that image
then you'll have 40 seconds to describe
the image in some
level of detail okay and remember on pt
academic you don't just get
one task you'll get a number of read
alouds a number of repeat sentences a
number of described images
etc the fourth speaking task in pt
academic is called
retail lecture it looks like this
what happens is you're going to hear a
lecture
or an interview you'll be taking notes
then you'll have 10 seconds to prepare
after that lecture or interview finishes
and then you'll retell the lecture in
your own words in under 40 seconds this
is where it starts to get pretty tricky
in pt academic pretty challenging
and the final speaking task of pt
academic is called answer short question
where you need to answer a short
question looks like this you'll hear a
question and you just answer in one or
two words
cool that in short is pt academic
speaking
now how is it scored well uh actually
not
how is it scored what how many points do
you get
you get between a score of between 10
and 90. so you might get a 75 or
a 12 or something like that and it's
worth noting that pt
academic speaking is entirely marked
by an algorithm not a human brain
okay which we'll talk about the pros and
cons of that
coming up okay let's take a closer look
at
ielts speaking now this is ielts
academic and ielts general have the same
speaking task there's no difference if
you're taking one of those exams
okay ielts speaking looks like this
well it doesn't actually look like this
looks like a human being
because you're going to be talking to a
person not a computer
there are three parts there's small talk
two-minute monologue and an
in-depth discussion
small talk is where the examiner will
ask you just sort of
very straightforward questions like uh
do you study or do you work
tell me about where you live do you live
in an apartment or a house they
sort of very very straightforward
questions like this do you like the rain
very strange questions sometimes and you
have to say yes i like the rain
but you also also have to elaborate on
why
part two of ielts speaking gets quite
challenging
this is where you need to deliver a
two-minute speech you can call it a
speech if you like
you have to talk for two minutes you'll
get
one minute to prepare they give you like
a task card
and you have a topic to talk about and
you get one minute to prepare and take
notes
and then you have to speak about that
topic for up to two minutes
and that's a real challenge
part three is an extension of the topic
that you did in part two so say for
example you had to talk about
i don't know a gift
in part two for two minutes a gift that
you once received in part three there
might be lots of questions about
advertising sort of relating to gifts
and part three is where it gets quite
in-depth and philosophical the questions
are much more
complex and you need to think much more
critically and therefore
exercise in your answer better
vocabulary more complex grammar
etc in order to score highly
so you are scored by a person in the
moment so that examiner is going to be
asking you the questions
and taking notes and scoring you in the
moment
and you'll be scored between zero that
means you don't
say anything at all and nine which means
you just
deliver incredible barack obama type of
answers
uh yes let's not get into politics but
you'll be scored in
increments of 0.5 so you might get like
a 7.5
or an 8 or an 8.5 for example
and there are some limitations with just
having a human examiner but we'll talk
about that coming up
the next exam is toefl ibt and here's
how
it works you'll have what's called
independent speaking tasks and
integrated speaking tasks or should i
say
an independent speaking task and
integrated speaking tasks plural so
these are
quite short tasks where you get a little
bit of time to prepare
might just ask you a single question
that you have to talk about
you'll get maybe 15 to 30 seconds to
prepare and then you have to speak
on a given answer which will be 45 to 60
seconds
with the integrated speaking tasks
you'll listen to something
and you'll read something and then you
need to speak about them
okay okay so in toefl you're
scored between zero and 30 points
okay in increments of one so two three
four five six seven eight
etc up to 30. now toefl is cool because
it scores you via an algorithm and
a person a human being will also be
assessing you as well interesting thing
is with toefl
you're not actually on test day speaking
to a person you'll be speaking to the
computer
okay but those answers will be sent one
will be
some will they will be sent to the
algorithm and they'll be sent to a
person who'll do the marking
and then they sort of uh use both of
them to derive your score in fact i
think there are
two different examiners that um assess
the one
piece of speaking cool so let's do a
little comparison of the three
tests and those tasks and the format the
marking
whether it's interactive the scoring and
the length so
pt academic is a computer-based test
it's marked via an algorithm it's not
interactive this means there's no back
and forth
dialogue to people speaking it's you
speaking into the computer
like you're describing an image then
you're retelling a lecture
or you're reading aloud but there's no
back and forth so there's no
listening involved except for in retail
lecture because you have to do listen to
that
lecture anyways there's no person
involved no interactivity
and as i mentioned you scored between 10
and 90 and it takes about 15 minutes
that part of the test
in ielts it is a human format
person and it's human marked
and it is interactive it's back and
forth it's dialogic
dia two people speaking uh scored
between zero and nine
and it goes for between 11 to 14 minutes
minute should say minutes there toefl
ibt
is computer-based so there's no person
involved it's just you and the computer
it's marked via both an algorithm and a
human
it's not interactive scored between 0
and 30 and it goes for about 17 minutes
in total cool so that's the speaking
tasks compared between those
three tests okay let's think for a
little bit about
the difference between algorithms
algorithm
versus humans so how
accurate are they well algorithms are
good at assessing speaking
are they perfect no are they bad
no they're pretty good they're pretty
accurate
they're certainly what's the word
consistent
okay which is a good thing humans are
they accurate
depends depends how well trained that
examiner is it depends
if that examiner is familiar with your
particular accent
say for example you have a
south indian accent you speak malayalam
as your first language right
and the examiner does too well they're
going to be able to understand you
a lot more easily than if you get say an
examiner from
new zealand who has never heard
malayalam speaking
english or malayali speaking english
right so there are some pros and cons
there
so i'm going to say it depends on how
accurate they are they're certainly well
trained but it depends they also get
tired they get hungry etc
biases so of course some now algorithms
are not
free of biases okay that's not true
because
you need to create an algorithm or the
scoring mechanism
and when you do that you might be
including biases in the algorithm
that you can't get out unless you train
the algorithm further
so there are biases in the algorithm yes
there are
are there biases in the human yes there
are
there's not much you can do about that
are they reliable
well that means let's think about
reliability in that they're consistent
with this scoring
algorithms are entirely consistent uh
you reliable though because
some days you'll speak very clearly and
very fluently and you'll find
yourself having access to vocabulary and
grammar
and some days you will wake up on the
wrong side of the bed and be
not so reliable your speech might not be
as good as it was
yesterday okay so it's kind of difficult
if you do take pt
for example and your scores will
fluctuate
that will really depend on you
humans are they reliable uh somewhat
not too bad um
let's not go into it but not too bad
anyway there's room for improvement with
both of these things here
algorithms and people how do you prepare
for your s
the speaking section of your test well
there's a few different things you need
to think of
first of all you need to think about
fundamental skills
okay fundamental skills in speaking are
vocabulary
the words the grammar that is the rules
that govern the words
and the pronunciation the sounds that
you make the clarity of your speech
they're the fundamental skills okay once
you've got
them down then you need to think about
test prep
and with test prep what you're thinking
about is
task familiarization that is do you get
ielts speaking part two
do you know a structure for retail
lecture and pt academic do you know how
to do the toefl
integrated speaking for example and that
is
method as well methods include
structures
and not templates but ways to approach
the question
okay um step-by-step approaches
are really helpful and powerful
application
you need to do it you need to practice
it but the best thing you can do is get
feedback on your speaking okay
especially if you aren't getting the
scores you need if you have an expert
teacher
somebody who can listen to a recording
or meet you in
face to face or on zoom for example
that's the best thing you can do
so just on that if you are preparing for
any of these tests then check out
e2language.com
because we have preparation courses for
pt academic
ielts academic ielts general toefl and
also
oet as well one of the things that you
can do
in our courses is take one-on-one
tutorials with the teacher
these are very powerful ways to improve
your speaking
we can also uh we assess your speaking
where you will do a recording and you'll
submit it through the computer
our expert teachers will then give you
an assessment they'll listen to you
carefully
tell you exactly what you need to do to
boost your scores before you take the
exam
so check out e2language.com
okay let's talk about writing because
writing
um according to the statistics
at least one of these tests that i'm
thinking of
writing is the most difficult part by
far
most people fail or get a low score in
the writing section so this is important
let's check this out
so as i mentioned before you'll be
scored in these tests on all four skills
let's talk about writing
now first of all what is writing what
does that mean what are you scored on
what does it consist of
well you'll be writing in a social
context it'll be an academic social
context
because these exams will take you to
university for example
writing consists of vocab grammar and
structure
vocabulary consists of range that is how
broad your vocabulary is
how precise it is that is your word
choice
and it also includes your spelling as
well because it's the
vocab that you need to spell in writing
grammar consists of accuracy that is
you're getting your plural nouns and
your verb tenses and the preposition
correct
and also the range that is you can write
well-constructed
uh no no no no that means you know all
the verb tenses
you know all the different little
thingamajigs of grammar
structure refers to broad level
structure like the essay the overall
essay structure for example paragraph
structure
sentence structure and sentence
structure consists of
punctuation or has punctuation in it as
well
so you can see here that writing is
quite a complex
phenomenon okay so let's dig in and take
a look at
pte academic writing so pt
academic writing actually in the writing
section of pte there are only
two writing tasks but there are other
tasks
that from other sections from the
reading
no from the listening section
and reading section that actually
contribute points to your writing score
as well so they don't just
all come from the writing section these
are called integrated scoring there's
integrated scoring in pt academic that
means you're doing
one task it might contribute points to
writing and listening for example
so the first one is called summarize
written text
it looks like this what you have to do
is you have to read
that text carefully you'll have 10
minutes to do this
and then what you do is you summarize it
into
one sentence a single sentence
summary not two not three not a
paragraph one
sentence summary okay and this
contributes points to both your reading
and
writing score next one is of course
an essay all of these exams require you
to write an essay
the pt academic essay is always an
argumentative
persuasive essay okay so you'll be given
a question prompt and it'll be sort of
somewhat controversial or it will have
two sides to the argument you'll need to
pick a side
and argue for that side you can mention
the other side of the argument if you
want it's probably a good idea
but you'll be arguing for a sign and
certainly including your opinion
throughout the essay this one i think is
no
it is you write between 200 and 300
words you have 20 minutes
summarize spoken text is actually in the
listening part of the exam
but there's a writing component to it
what happens
is you listen to a lecture or an
interview you'll take notes then you're
going to write
a summary of between 50 and 70 words
there's some other ones as well reading
and writing fill in the blanks listening
fill in the blanks and right from
dictation
come from the reading and listening
sections i won't go into them in detail
please check out e2language.com if
you've got any questions about those
particular tasks or if you want to
understand the methods
get practice material join the live
classes pass your test
check out e2language.com now writing is
scored
again from 10 to 90 and again it is
scored entirely via a computer algorithm
there is no human being assessing your
writing at all okay
machines let's take a closer look at
ielts academic writing
so in task 1 what you have to do is
describe an image that is you're going
to get a table a chart
diagram a process a graph or even a map
or multiples of that you might get two
tables two charts a diagram a process
three graphs two maps for example
it could be and what you have to do is
write a very
concise sort of descriptive report
of that image whatever it is there's a
very much a certain way
that you write this okay you're not
saying wow it has a lovely green line
and a blue line and a pink no no
no there's a really an academic way to
write this particular description
that really does require quite a bit of
practice it's
not an easy thing to write mainly
because you have to be
so concise with what you write the word
count is
minimum 150 words you can write more you
don't have to
you're not given more points to write
more but around
certainly above that in task
two you have to write minimum 250 word
essay now the essay prompts unlike pt
academic the essay prompts differ
so there's different ones there's
advantages disadvantages
opinions problem solution cause and
effect
i can't remember but there's a few other
ones again if you're preparing for ielts
check out e2language.com we'll take you
through all of these essay
prompts all of these different question
types provide you with structures
model essays you can get writing
feedback join the live classes
best way to prepare for sure cool now
all up in total you get 60 minutes to do
those two tasks so you should spend 20
minutes on task 1 and 40 minutes on
task 2. you're scored between 0 and 9
just like before and these are scored by
people human beings i believe they're
called
okay let's talk about toefl writing
so toefl writing has an integrated
writing task
where you will read listen and then
write
and it has an independent writing task
which is pretty much an essay where
you'll write an essay on personal
experience or
an opinion i can't remember the word
count of each of these off
the top of my head nor can i remember
the timings
but if you are preparing for your toefl
test check out e2language.com we've got
lots of great courses on offer if you
need to take it in a short time prepare
in a short time
or you've got lots of time to prepare if
you want no feedback or lots of feedback
live classes the whole works check it
out so the
toefl writing is scored from zero to 30
and
again just like the speaking they put it
through an algorithm
and they also put it through a human
being's brain as well
in order to derive the results
okay so let's do a quick comparison of
the three tests
so pt academic format computer-based
marking
algorithm word count well summarize
written text
5 to 75 words essay 200 to 300 words
and summarize spoken text 50 to 70 words
time limit 10 minutes to summarize
written text
20 minutes for the essay 10 minutes to
summarize spoken text and you're scored
between 10
and 90. but it also takes into account
all of the other aspects of writing that
i mentioned
grammar vocabulary structure
spelling punctuation these are all
elements that you need to get right in
order to get a good score
ielts academic so you can take the
paper-based test
or there is a computer-based test and if
you're taking ielts
i highly recommend that you take the
computer-based test
if that option is available to you and
the reason is that
with the writing section if you're
writing on paper
you can't edit your work easily okay
if you want to move this part or add
something in here it's basically
drawing lines rubbing stuff out and you
have a time limit on the computer
you put your cursor in there you add
something you move a sentence
shift it around it just makes the
writing much more efficient it's still
the same question prompt
same level of difficulty but the medium
of the computer makes it
way faster and because you get to save
time
you get to spend more time making sure
that you've written correctly
on topic grammatically etc
uh it will be marked by human even if
you take the computer test it's still
sent to people who then mark it word
counts are 150 words or 250 words plus
time limit 20 minutes and 40 minutes and
scored between zero and nine
aha here's toefl and the scoring and
timing
toefl computer-based test marked by an
algorithm and a person
maybe even two people i think word count
between 150 and 225 for the integrated
task
around 300 for the independent essay
20 minutes on the integrated task 30
minutes on your essay
scored between 0 and 30. so take a look
at those
three tests have a look see what sort of
feels right for you
which one do you like
so how do you prepare for writing in an
english language
exam well few again just like speaking
you've got
fundamental skills these are primary
ingredients that you need to get right
okay there's no way you can if you don't
have
vocabulary large vocabulary
if you don't have grammar and if you
don't have
structure then it's problematic okay
sentence structure for example
okay you need to get that right first
you can do that by the way if you go to
e2school.com so this is a website that
builds your fundamental
uh skills for english language tests at
e2school.com
if you've got those right then you need
to focus on test prep
test prep includes again task
familiarization so
what sort of essay prompts will you get
in the ielts how should you structure
the essay
in pt academic how does the integrated
writing work in toefl
then you've got methods and structures
against step-by-step approaches
to each of these tasks application you
need to do practice questions
and feedback for writing is essential
because you don't know what mistakes
you're making and only an
expert not your friend not your mum
somebody who is actually really well
versed in these s
exams can help you out there okay
because what's important here is the
criteria
so these essays that we write or that
you write the the
the examiners and the algorithm and not
just
marking them thing thinking oh that
looks good let's just give that a
56. no there's a certain criteria
certain checklist if you like that you
need to meet
all of these standards or exceed them in
order to get a high score
and that's why a good teacher like an e2
language teacher is so essential
so check out e2language.com if you're
preparing for one of these tests
and if you're watching this on youtube
please click that subscribe button
so you can get lots of great videos
while you prepare for your test
that's all see you later my name is jay
i'll see you soon hopefully see you on
[Music]
e2language.com